ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

### Model Tree

The model tree represents the document in memory at a very high level of abstraction.

It has the following structure:

-   *DocumentNode*

    -   *HeaderNode* (special, not a child)

    -   *FooterNode* (special, not a child)

    -   *ParagraphNode*

        Can overflow pages and might be split into multiple layout nodes.

        -   *ChunkNode*

            Adjacent chunks with the same style must be merged.

        -   *FieldNode*

            The most obvious one would be page numbers, but there could be others.

### Layout Tree

The layout tree describes how the model tree is rendered.

-   We need to know where we put things to process things like click events.

-   An important part is, that the layout tree needs to be invalidated when the model is changed.

-   The layout logic that converts the model nodes into layout nodes must be deterministic, otherwise, we get issues
    when we are invalidating too aggressively.

-   There can be multiple layout nodes for a single model node, for example the dot used by a list, or the headers and footers on each page.

-   In some cases, we need to fill in some information like page numbers that are abstracted in the model.

It has the following structure:

-   *PageNode*

-   *BlockLayoutNode*

-   *InlineLayoutNode*

    -   *WordChunkNode*

### Immutable Model Tree

-   The model tree needs to be immutable because we want to add undo/redo functionality to the codebase.

    Usually this is done by a fancy "command" pattern where instead of making modifications directly, a new object is created with an `redo()` and
    `undo()` method.
    These commands can then be stored in a stack structure.

-   When we change a node further down in the tree, we need to update all the parent nodes with new children.
    All remaining nodes remain unchanged.

-   Notice, that we automatically discard any caches when we create a copy of a node.
    This means that if we make modifications all of our cached values are gone before we can make changes.
    This is another layer of protection.

### Event Handling

With the complex model and layout structures, we need to be careful what we can modify in event handers.
Currently, my approach is, that I am allowed to change the model in the event handler (by creating a new root node).
However, I am not allowed to modify the layout nodes in any way.

In the future, I will have to adjust this because I need some way of invalidating layout nodes that can not be reused.
Since the model nodes do not reference the layout nodes, this would be difficult otherwise.

### Layout Phases

Not all of the layout operation can be performed in a single step.
We need to place child nodes before we can place the parent since we don't know the height of the parent before the children are placed.
Therefore, there are two phases:

-   In the first phase, a temporary parent is assigned that can be changed.
    The parent doesn't know about this at this point.
    No space is reserved and no position is assigned.

    Note, that nothing else can be placed in a parent if it is referenced by a child node.
    This is, because the child node will cache the remaining width of the parent and it assumes that all of it can be used.

    If a node will never be added to the parent, the parent can freely be changed.

-   We might have to add another phase here.
    Instead of placing children directly, we could reserve space and figure out the placement later.
    That is needed for flexible containers where children can influence each other.

-   In the second phase, the parent is permanently assigned and can no longer be changed.
    The parent now knows about this child.
    Space is reserved and a position relative to the parent is assigned.

-   When all nodes have been placed, we compute all of the absolute positions and sizes and cache them in the nodes.

    Previously, this was done in one big step, however, this can be optimized to take advantage of culling.
    We lazily switch to this phase when they become visible on the screen.

Commit message:

Writer: Validate the hierarchy in the layout tree
The referenced model nodes in the layout tree need to be consistent with
the model tree.

I feel like I am overengineering this with the whole immutable model
tree thing, but I keep going for now.

ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

### Model Tree

The model tree represents the document in memory at a very high level of abstraction.

It has the following structure:

-   *DocumentNode*

    -   *HeaderNode* (special, not a child)

    -   *FooterNode* (special, not a child)

    -   *ParagraphNode*

        Can overflow pages and might be split into multiple layout nodes.

        -   *ChunkNode*

            Adjacent chunks with the same style must be merged.

        -   *FieldNode*

            The most obvious one would be page numbers, but there could be others.

### Layout Tree

The layout tree describes how the model tree is rendered.

-   We need to know where we put things to process things like click events.

-   An important part is, that the layout tree needs to be invalidated when the model is changed.

-   The layout logic that converts the model nodes into layout nodes must be deterministic, otherwise, we get issues
    when we are invalidating too aggressively.

-   There can be multiple layout nodes for a single model node, for example the dot used by a list, or the headers and footers on each page.

-   In some cases, we need to fill in some information like page numbers that are abstracted in the model.

-   The layout nodes can reference model nodes.
    If so, then the parent of that model node is referenced by a parent of the layout node.

    In other words, the hierarchy is consistent with the model tree.

It has the following structure:

-   *PageNode*

-   *BlockLayoutNode*

-   *InlineLayoutNode*

    -   *WordChunkNode*

### Immutable Model Tree

-   The model tree needs to be immutable because we want to add undo/redo functionality to the codebase.

    Usually this is done by a fancy "command" pattern where instead of making modifications directly, a new object is created with an `redo()` and
    `undo()` method.
    These commands can then be stored in a stack structure.

-   When we change a node further down in the tree, we need to update all the parent nodes with new children.
    All remaining nodes remain unchanged.

-   Notice, that we automatically discard any caches when we create a copy of a node.
    This means that if we make modifications all of our cached values are gone before we can make changes.
    This is another layer of protection.

### Event Handling

With the complex model and layout structures, we need to be careful what we can modify in event handers.
Currently, my approach is, that I am allowed to change the model in the event handler (by creating a new root node).
However, I am not allowed to modify the layout nodes in any way.

In the future, I will have to adjust this because I need some way of invalidating layout nodes that can not be reused.
Since the model nodes do not reference the layout nodes, this would be difficult otherwise.

### Layout Phases

Not all of the layout operation can be performed in a single step.
We need to place child nodes before we can place the parent since we don't know the height of the parent before the children are placed.
Therefore, there are two phases:

-   In the first phase, a temporary parent is assigned that can be changed.
    The parent doesn't know about this at this point.
    No space is reserved and no position is assigned.

    Note, that nothing else can be placed in a parent if it is referenced by a child node.
    This is, because the child node will cache the remaining width of the parent and it assumes that all of it can be used.

    If a node will never be added to the parent, the parent can freely be changed.

-   We might have to add another phase here.
    Instead of placing children directly, we could reserve space and figure out the placement later.
    That is needed for flexible containers where children can influence each other.

-   In the second phase, the parent is permanently assigned and can no longer be changed.
    The parent now knows about this child.
    Space is reserved and a position relative to the parent is assigned.

-   When all nodes have been placed, we compute all of the absolute positions and sizes and cache them in the nodes.

    Previously, this was done in one big step, however, this can be optimized to take advantage of culling.
    We lazily switch to this phase when they become visible on the screen.
