README.md, before:

## About

This is a prototype of a writer application that I want to add to Serenity OS.

-   It should be similar to Libre Office Writer or Microsoft Word, but much simpler.

-   My goal here is to write my own layout engine, which is essentially a simplified version of CSS
    but without a text representation to define the rules.

## Demo

This is in an early state of development, however, I do have a prototype working.
The following code is used to describe what should be presented on the screen:

```python
model_tree = model.DocumentModelNode()

paragraph_1 = model_tree.add_child(model.ParagraphModelNode(style=heading_paragraph_style))
paragraph_1.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text="This  is a", style=normal_heading_text_chunk_style))
paragraph_1.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text=" heading.", style=normal_heading_text_chunk_style))

paragraph_2 = model_tree.add_child(model.ParagraphModelNode(style=normal_paragraph_style))
paragraph_2.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text="This is a normal paragraph, but ", style=normal_normal_text_chunk_style))
paragraph_2.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text="this", style=bold_normal_text_chunk_style))
paragraph_2.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text=" has some highlight applied to it.", style=normal_normal_text_chunk_style))

paragraph_1 = model_tree.add_child(model.ParagraphModelNode(style=normal_paragraph_style))
paragraph_1.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text="Here is another paragraph which is much longer than the ", style=normal_normal_text_chunk_style))
paragraph_1.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text="previous ", style=bold_normal_text_chunk_style))
paragraph_1.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text="one. On top of that, the formatting is all ", style=normal_normal_text_chunk_style))
paragraph_1.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text="over the place", style=bold_normal_text_chunk_style))
paragraph_1.add_child(model.TextChunkModelNode(text=".", style=normal_normal_text_chunk_style))
```

All of this is then rendered on the screen and it is possible to click on words to delete them from the model (which then updates the layout as well):

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31994781/192720179-6e014be6-9ca7-4e91-aca0-d2edbc03a5fe.mp4

Commit message:

Meta: Rewrite the landing page

README.md, after:

# Writer

## About

This is a word processor similar to Microsoft Word or LibreOffice Writer.
Obviously, I only try to support the core features since I don't want to spend years reinventing the wheel.

I originally started this project because I wanted to add a Writer application to Serenity OS.
Maybe, that will still happen at some point in the future, but I no longer have plans to do so at the moment.

The problem is, that this whole thing is much more challenging than expected.
I thought that I could simply create a wrapper for a web browser and thus use HTML/CSS for rendering.
Then I would write some C++ code that deals with all the interaction logic and connects to LibWeb and the file system.

However, I quickly realized that this would not work, because of paging.
Paging is the process of taking the text and deciding on which page it should be rendered.
This is a chicken-egg problem where the layout can infulence the structure of the page, which itself infuences the layout.

Since CSS is not capable of modifying the DOM and the support for CSS3-REGIONS was removed from browsers, there is no way to get this working.
There are workarounds, but I ultimately decided to create my own rendering engine ditching the web browser entirely.
I stated working on a prototype in Python, which became this project.

## Demo

*This is in an early state of development.
Most of the basic functionality is there but it's extremely buggy and some key features are missing.*

*In the demo, the cursor is sometimes flickering due to a rendering bug that I am working to resolve.*

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31994781/192720179-6e014be6-9ca7-4e91-aca0-d2edbc03a5fe.mp4
