Notes/0008_too-inefficent-for-large-files.md, before:

commitid 98547b664a2bb955b4b57591b8e509ee11b2cacf

As I suspected, my current implementation is too inefficent to be used in any real context.

### Notes

-   I ran a benchmark and the result isn't good:

    ```none
    Rebuild      6667293512ns (     6.667s)
    Painting     3805168215ns (     3.805s)
    ```

    This was for an extremely large file with about 10000 lines of text.

-   In a slightly different benchmark, I clicked on a word to trigger a redraw:

    ```none
    Rebuild      6680747048ns (     6.681s)
    Painting     3740714299ns (     3.741s)
    Rebuild      6665600045ns (     6.666s)
    Painting     3755506283ns (     3.756s)
    ```

    Seems that there is no noticible difference.

-   After adding some basic culling, the rendering itself is fast enough to navigate the page without any noticable lag:

    ```none
    Rebuild      7371958048ns (     7.372s)
    Painting       11476634ns (   0.01148s)
    ```

    However, the time required to rebuild the layout tree is still a big problem.

### Ideas

### Actions

-   I added culling during the painting phase.
    We only draw the things that are actually visible on the screen.

    That was extremely easy to implement and drastically improved the performance.

Commit message:

Writer: Benchmark the layout tree generation code with py-flame
I've identified a few places where my code is too slow.  I hope, I can
address at least a few of them.

Notes/0008_too-inefficent-for-large-files.md, after:

commitid 98547b664a2bb955b4b57591b8e509ee11b2cacf

As I suspected, my current implementation is too inefficent to be used in any real context.

### Notes

-   I ran a benchmark and the result isn't good:

    ```none
    Rebuild      6667293512ns (     6.667s)
    Painting     3805168215ns (     3.805s)
    ```

    This was for an extremely large file with about 10000 lines of text.

-   In a slightly different benchmark, I clicked on a word to trigger a redraw:

    ```none
    Rebuild      6680747048ns (     6.681s)
    Painting     3740714299ns (     3.741s)
    Rebuild      6665600045ns (     6.666s)
    Painting     3755506283ns (     3.756s)
    ```

    Seems that there is no noticible difference.

-   After adding some basic culling, the rendering itself is fast enough to navigate the page without any noticable lag:

    ```none
    Rebuild      7371958048ns (     7.372s)
    Painting       11476634ns (   0.01148s)
    ```

    However, the time required to rebuild the layout tree is still a big problem.

-   I used `py-spy` to create a flame graph of the application.

    The following functions had some noticable inpact on performance, where I did not expect that:

    -   `TextChunkModelNode.get_font_metrics` when building the word groups.

        -   This could be cached in some font helper class.

    -   `get_max_remaining_width` when trying to place words in the current line.

        -   This could be cached in the layout node.

    -   `TextChunkLayoutNode.__init__`

        -   This might be because it uses `TextChunkModelNode.get_font_metrics`.

        -   I could make use of slots here.

### Ideas

### Actions

-   I added culling during the painting phase.
    We only draw the things that are actually visible on the screen.

    That was extremely easy to implement and drastically improved the performance.
