Notes/0010_optimizing-study.md, before:

commitid f0b0af93dcbce30418ece993920f045a0a6b097d

My goal is to continue the optimization efforts, but in a more structured way, focused on the "Study in Scarlet" benchmark.

### Notes

-   I created a proper benchmark to have more reproduciable results, here is the initial result:

    ```none
    initial_layout                    0.4103s    410282404ns
    layout_unchanged_1                0.3925s    392546171ns
    layout_change_start               0.4008s    400800516ns
    layout_unchanged_2                0.3968s    396805364ns
    layout_change_end                 0.4003s    400318044ns
    layout_unchanged_3                0.3912s    391235661ns
    ```

-   I am aware of the following inefficencies:

    -   `get_max_remaining_width` when trying to place words in the current line.

        -   This could be cached in the layout node.

    -   `WordGroup.add_excerpt` takes up a significant amount of the execution time.

        It should be possible to cache the font in the model nodes.

    -   `LayoutStyle.__init__` is extremely slow, not sure what causes this.

    -   It seems that `QFont` does a bunch of weird things, maybe I should add that cache back in.
        If no `QApplication` is defined, it will crash.

        To me, this clearly suggests that it's doing something complex.
        I still don't know if that has a significant performance impact though.

    -   It should be possible to store the layout nodes that are generated for paragraphs with the model nodes.
        Most paragraphs will not change, but are only placed in a different position.

        Therefore, if only one layout node is used for that paragraph, we try to use it again and recompute the result otherwise.
        That will not decrease the initial loading time, however, it will drastically reduce the time it takes to do incremental layout changes.

        To implement this, I should replicate the placement code and figure out how to merge both implementations later on.

Commit message:

Writer: Cache the font in the model nodes
This means, that it is no longer necessary to do the style cascade,
every time the font is requested.  On top of that, we are no longer
constructing the 'QFont' objects all the time, which seems to be
expensive as well.

Notes/0010_optimizing-study.md, after:

commitid f0b0af93dcbce30418ece993920f045a0a6b097d

My goal is to continue the optimization efforts, but in a more structured way, focused on the "Study in Scarlet" benchmark.

### Notes

-   I created a proper benchmark to have more reproduciable results, here is the initial result:

    ```none
    initial_layout                    0.3905s    390533375ns
    layout_unchanged_1                0.3735s    373455650ns
    layout_change_start               0.3868s    386801800ns
    layout_unchanged_2                0.3845s    384506701ns
    layout_change_end                 0.3789s    378916188ns
    layout_unchanged_3                0.3773s    377349250ns
    ```

-   After caching the font in the model nodes, this is the current result:

    ```none
    initial_layout                    0.3295s    329464474ns
    layout_unchanged_1                0.3119s    311860668ns
    layout_change_start               0.3216s    321573964ns
    layout_unchanged_2                0.3153s    315336605ns
    layout_change_end                 0.3186s    318620339ns
    layout_unchanged_3                0.3096s    309575365ns
    ```

-   The following inefficencies have been resolved:

    -   `WordGroup.add_excerpt` takes up a significant amount of the execution time.

        It should be possible to cache the font in the model nodes.

-   I am aware of the following inefficencies:

    -   `get_max_remaining_width` when trying to place words in the current line.

        -   This could be cached in the layout node.

    -   `LayoutStyle.__init__` is extremely slow, not sure what causes this.

    -   It should be possible to store the layout nodes that are generated for paragraphs with the model nodes.
        Most paragraphs will not change, but are only placed in a different position.

        Therefore, if only one layout node is used for that paragraph, we try to use it again and recompute the result otherwise.
        That will not decrease the initial loading time, however, it will drastically reduce the time it takes to do incremental layout changes.

        To implement this, I should replicate the placement code and figure out how to merge both implementations later on.

### Actions

-   I started caching the font in the `TextChunkModelNode`.
    This was another noticable improvement, now, we only need to do the style cascade once for each model node.
